---
title: In Season for Fall and Winter
author: Alon Salant
layout: post
collection: [news, posts]
disqus:
  shortname: goodeggsbytes
  url: "http://bites.goodeggs.com/posts/fall_2013/"
---

Last week [we announced our Series A funding](http://blog.goodeggs.com/post/62349630794/were-thrilled-to-partner-with-sequoia-capital-to)
led by Sequoia Capital. After a summer of hustling to grow sales and build tools to keep great local food flowing smoothly
through our San Francisco foodhub we can now turn attention to building the systems we need to scale Good Eggs in
Brooklyn, New Orleans, Los Angeles and beyond.

Here's an overview of what we're working on and what's coming up for the software development team at Good Eggs.

<!-- more -->

We have three domains in which we are building applications:

* Local food shopping
* Producer business tools
* Just-in-time logistics

We have a dedicated product team working on each of these domains. A product team consists of
a product lead, four to six engineers and a designer. Engineers regularly rotate among teams so we get the great
cross-pollination and learning that comes from collaborating with new people.

Local food shopping
----------------------

[GoodEggs.com](https://www.goodeggs.com) is a great online food shopping experience that is more convenient than going to the grocery store while
supporting a direct connection to the people producing your food. Today you can shop in any of four foodsheds
(SF Bay, Brooklyn, New Orleans, Los Angeles) and buy food directly from hundreds of farmers or foodmakers for fulfillment
by Good Eggs or directly by the producer. We'll send you pickup and delivery reminders by email and SMS and a
regular weekly email that keeps you up to date with the new seasonal products regularly showing up in the market.

Our challenge is to create an experience that helps busy people to easily get food they trust and love on their tables.
Coming up for this team is creating a search experience to help you find exactly what you are looking for, richer
stories and media about the many farmers and foodmakers that power Good Eggs, a mobile
app so that you can buy those salad greens right when you think of it instead of adding to your grocery list, and features
to help you discover more great food from your friends and family who are also eating well on Good Eggs.

Producer business tools
----------------------

Our tools for farmers and foodmakers enable them to manage their products and inventory,
create promotions and do their own customer service by issuing refunds and communicating directly with their customers.
They receive email alerts when shoppers buy their products
and daily emails that coordinate their production and delivery schedules with our receiving staff.

Our challenge is to bring big business technology smarts to serve small and mid-size businesses. For businesses that
largely run off paper and spreadsheets, we've already made a world of difference. We're turning our attention now to
improving the mobile experience since these people are more often on a phone than at a computer. We're looking at ways to
use the data about what people are buying and when to help these businesses make better decisions about what to plant, raise
and prepare in order to run more efficient and profitable businesses.

Just-in-time logistics
----------------------

Our logistics systems power a new kind of food distribution characterized by just-in-time fulfillment through our
physical food hubs in San Francisco, Brooklyn, New Orleans and Los Angeles. We receive food from producers in the morning,
start packing orders at 11am and have the first vehicles going out by 1pm to delivery and pickup locations. All food that
arrives in our foodhub has already been sold and is destined for a customer's plate.

This system is actually a suite of applications that tie together receiving, packing, routing, driving and customer service
to provide a seamless experience to our customers. It is the real engine behind Good Eggs.
It must be fault-tolerant and handle smoothly the many small issues that arise when tracking real food as it moves through the day
from producer to customer.

We've evolved this system rapidly with a combination of digital and paper tools. Each morning we print receiving, packing and route
sheets that our Local Food Dispatcher teams use to assemble and deliver orders. Paper has been a fantastic medium for this
experimentation as it is infinitely hackable. We can make notes, update information or create a stack of issues to be picked
up and handled by someone else. It has enabled us to iterate extremely quickly and invent new practices as we go.

We're now ready to codify much of these practices into the next version of our logistics software. Our receiving team
is already using our new tablet-based receiving app, code-named Kale and built with AngularJS, to record all food entering the foodhub, track
temperature/cold chain for chill and frozen items, and identify issues to be handled by customer service. On deck is an
app for our drivers to easily follow their delivery routes, communicate with customers on the go and provide a more personalized
experience when they arrive at their door.

The Future
----------

We've got our work cut out for us. As our teams grow in other foodsheds, one of the best ways we can serve them is
to deliver great software that embodies the effective practices we have developed scaling up our San Francisco foodhub.
These practices continue to evolve so we're building these systems to be as simple and malleable as possible. One thing
that we can rely on for the future is that we will always be learning, changing and improving.
